# Glossary

<table><thead><tr><th width="248">Acronym/definition</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>AgID</td><td>Agency for Digital Italy (Agenzia per l&rsquo;Italia Digitale), the operator of the payments-SPC node before it is managed by PagoPA S.p.A.</td></tr><tr><td>APA</td><td>Archive of the expected payments (Archivio delle posizioni attese)</td></tr><tr><td>pagoPA Backoffice</td><td><p>Backoffice pagoPA is a vertical portal integrated in the Reserved Area platform, which offers services dedicated to the pagoPA product.</p><p>It is dedicated to the creditors (such as public administration, public service operators and state-owned companies) and Payment Service Providers</p></td></tr><tr><td>CAD</td><td>Digital Administration Code: legislative decree 7 March 2005, no. 82 updated with the subsequent amendments</td></tr><tr><td>Information Data Catalog</td><td>It is the tool the PSP uses to communicate to PagoPA S.p.A. the payment services and the relative conditions of use, including the maximum commission cost that may be applied so that PagoPA S.p.A. can make this information available to potential customers of the PSP as users of the pagoPA system</td></tr><tr><td>Digital certificate</td><td>An electronic document in the asymmetric cryptography that certifies the univocal association between a public key and the identity of an entity (a person, company, computer, etc.) that declares to use it within the scope of the asymmetric encryption and/or authentication procedure by means of a digital signature</td></tr><tr><td>Checkout</td><td>The Checkout component enables the pagoPA platform for on-line payments via a website or a mobile phone, providing an e-commerce like experience. By means of Checkout, PSPs can offer their payment services directly to the citizen on the pagoPA platform</td></tr><tr><td>EC</td><td>Creditor. The context of pagoPA includes public administrations, state-owned companies, as defined in the adopted legislative decree implemented in article 18 of law no. 124 of 2015, excluding listed companies, and public service operators. Regardless of the legal nature of the institution, it is the entity registered with pagoPA that is indicated in the beneficiary institution element in the telematic payment request</td></tr><tr><td>Flow</td><td>A set of data pertaining to a node service, object or transmission or processing process service</td></tr><tr><td>Public service operators</td><td>The companies, institutions and every other legal entity that manages a service of public interest, which include, but are not limited to, the legal entities that manage electricity, gas, water services on a national level, as well as companies that manage on a local level the distribution of water and gas or those that provide urban transport o manage municipal buildings, etc.</td></tr><tr><td>Technological intermediary</td><td>The creditor or PSP registered with pagoPA that also manages the interconnection to the SPC node, also on behalf of other entities registered with pagoPA (creditor or PSP), pursuant to ยง 8.3.3 of the guidelines</td></tr><tr><td>Treasurer</td><td>Financial entity entrusted with the treasury or cash service of the single administrator, including Banca d&rsquo;Italia</td></tr><tr><td>IUV</td><td>Univocal Payment Identifier</td></tr><tr><td>Guidelines</td><td>The document &ldquo;Guidelines for making payments to public administrations and public service operators&rdquo;, of which these implementing specifications represent Attachment B</td></tr><tr><td>MEF</td><td>Ministry of th Economy and Finance</td></tr><tr><td>NodoSPC</td><td>Payments-SPC node. Technological platform for the interconnection and interoperability between public administrations and Payment Service Providers pursuant to art. 5, paragraph 2 of the CAD</td></tr><tr><td>PA</td><td>Public Administration (Central and Local). For the concept of the public administration, refer to what has already been widely described by the Ministry of the Economy and Finance and by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers with interpretive note no. 1 of 9 March 2015</td></tr><tr><td>pagoPA</td><td>The system of payments to public administrations and public service providers.</td></tr><tr><td>PagoPA S.p.A.</td><td>State-owned company created for the purpose of distributing digital services in Italy. The company was created pursuant to the &ldquo;Simplifications&rdquo; Law Decree (no. 135 of 14 December 2018), which was converted in to law on 12 January 2019, which specifies the creation of a company fully owned by the state, subject to the supervision of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers or the delegated Minister. Payments-SPC node operator.</td></tr><tr><td>Technological partner</td><td>Entity that manages the interconnection to the SPCnode on behalf of a creditor, in compliance with the technical specifications contained in the guidelines</td></tr><tr><td>PCI DSS</td><td>The international standard for the protection of data and involves all the entities involved in the storage, processing and transmission of card holder data and/or sensitive authentication data</td></tr><tr><td>PSP</td><td>Payment Service Provider.</td></tr><tr><td>PSD2</td><td>The second directive on payment services, the so-called PSD2, which came into force in the European Union on 13 January 2016 and implemented in Italy with <a href="https://www.gazzettaufficiale.it/eli/id/2018/1/13/18G00004/sg">Dl 15 December 2017, no. 218</a></td></tr><tr><td>SACI</td><td>Specifications for the implementation of identifier codes for payments, repayment and reporting, Attachment A of the guidelines</td></tr><tr><td>SANP</td><td>Specifications for the implementation of the Payments-SPC node, Attachment B of the guidelines</td></tr><tr><td>SEPA</td><td>Single Euro Payments Area, which is the area in which the users of the payment instruments - citizens, companies, public administrations and other economic operators - independently of their residence, can make and receive non-cash payments in Euros both within national borders and well as between different countries, under the same conditions and with the same rights and obligations. SEPA concerns 36 countries (all the countries of the European Union, plus other ones added). The SEPA project foresees the definition of common standards for bank transfers and direct debits, which are the two main retail non-cash Euro payment services</td></tr><tr><td>End user</td><td>Physical or legal person who makes an electronic payment in favor of a creditor through pagoPA</td></tr><tr><td>Web Service</td><td>A software system designed for supporting the interoperability between various processors in the same network, that is in a distributed context (definition from W3C, World Wide Web Consortium)</td></tr><tr><td>WSDL</td><td>Web Service Description Language. It is a formal language used for the creation of &ldquo;documents&rdquo; that define the &ldquo;Web Service&rdquo;</td></tr></tbody></table>

