# Obtaining a signature from citizens

**Sign with IO** is a function integrated in IO that allows users to place a digital signature on a document generated by the institution. 

This is a “one shot” **Qualified Electronic Signature** with maximum legal value, equivalent to a hand-written signature. Citizens only need IO to sign documents and contracts directly via their devices.

### **How does it work?**

{% stepper %} {% step %}

### The institution sends the request for a signature

The institution requests the user to sign a document by sending a message on the IO app. The institution can also insert a signature request on their website with a dedicated button that makes it possible to open IO and complete the operation. {% endstep %}

{% step %}

### The documents are visible on IO

The user accesses the IO app to view the documents to be signed, read the clauses and the conditions of the service provider of the qualified signature. {% endstep %}

{% step %}

### The user affixes their signature

After selecting the signatures to be affixed and accepting the terms and conditions of the service, the user completes the operation by means of biometric recognition or an unlock code. {% endstep %}

{% step %}

### The signed documents are available

The user receives the signed documents via an IO message, which can be shared or downloaded to their device. {% endstep %} {% endstepper %}

**For more information** on how Sign with IO functions and how to use it, [go to the dedicated website](https://firma.io.italia.it/). If your institution already uses it and you need to understand **how to send signature requests**,[ read the operating manual](https://docs.pagopa.it/manuale-operativo-di-firma-con-io).