---
metaLinks:
  alternates:
    - >-
      https://app.gitbook.com/s/BPKHO8znE6DiADKFUJfZ/tutorials/tutorials-for-producers/checks-of-the-digest-by-a-producer
---

# Checks of the digest by a producer

When a producer receives a request from a consumer, it must always perform the **voucher verifications**. These verifications depend on the **voucher type**: **Bearer** or **DPoP**.

In both cases, if the consumer was required to include **additional audit information** according to the **AgID Audit REST 02 pattern**, an **extra verification** must be carried out on the `digest`.

For both **Bearer** and **DPoP** vouchers, the voucher will include an additional field called `digest`.

Additionally, the request header will contain a **second token**, a **JWS** produced according to [**RFC 7519**](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7519), which appears in the `AgID-JWT-TrackingEvidence` header.

#### JWS content

An example JWS header:

```
{
  "alg": "RS256",
  "kid": "ZmYxZGE2YjQtMzY2Yy00NWI5LThjNGItMDJmYmQyZGIyMmZh",
  "typ": "JWT"
}
```

The **payload fields** contain the **audit information** that the consumer sends to the producer, as described in the e-service documentation. Their structure and content **may vary**, depending on the producer’s specific requirements for the e-service.

### **Verifications to perform**

The producer must verify that the **hash calculated from the JWS** matches the **hash included in the `digest` field** of the voucher issued by **PDND**.

The producer should:

1. Extract the **JWS** from the `AgID-JWT-TrackingEvidence` header and **verify its signature**;
2. Verify that the **hash of the JWS** matches the **hash contained in the `digest` field** of the voucher issued by PDND.

#### **Signature verification**

To verify the authenticity and validity of the **private key** used to sign the JWS, the producer must:

1. **Authenticate** to the **PDND APIs** as described in the **dedicated flow**;
2. Perform a call: `GET /keys/{kid}` where `{kid}` is the value of the `kid` field from the JWS header;
3. Receive from PDND a response containing the **public key** in the `n` field;
4. Verify that the **JWS signature**, generated by the consumer with its private key, **matches** the **public key** retrieved from PDND.

**Note:** If the PDND API returns a **404 – Not Found** error, it means that the key is **not registered** on PDND, and the request must therefore be considered **invalid**.

#### Hash calculation and comparison

If the key is present and valid, the producer can proceed with a **second verification** — a **notarial check**. In practice, it verifies that the trace deposited by the consumer on PDND when requesting authorization **matches** the one included in the **voucher** issued by PDND.

If the two match, it confirms that the **complementary information** inside the JWS is exactly what the consumer declared to PDND during the authorization request.

To perform this check:

1. The producer takes the **JWS** and computes a **non-reversible hash** using the same operation performed by the consumer in the second step.
2. The producer then compares this hash with the one in the field `digest.value` of the voucher (contained in the `Authorization` header).

If the two hashes **match**, it means that the consumer has made a **declaration consistent** with the trace recorded in PDND.

***

Next page [→ Tutorials for consumers](../tutorials-for-consumers/)
