# Management of delegations

Physical persons can delegate other physical persons or legal persons to access their notifications on their behalf.

The process starts from the delegator who creates a delegation for a delegate and continues with the delegate who accepts the delegation. The delegation has a period of validity that determines which notifications can be viewed by the delegate, that is those with a date of creation within the period of validity.

The validity start date is set automatically to 120 days prior to the creation of the delegation. The validity end date is set to any date following the date of creation.

The delegation can be associated with a particular sending PA in order to restrict the range of validity of the delegation itself. If not specified, the delegation permits access to the notifications generated by all PAs.

The delegation is accepted by the delegate by entering on the NP a code that is provided by the delegator and that was provided by NP upon creation of the delegation.

The delegation can be revoked at any time by the delegator or refused by the delegate.

A delegation takes on one of the following statuses: waiting for confirmation, active, revoked, refused, ended.

For the entire period of validity of an active delegation, the delegate can access NP and decide to act on behalf of the delegator, being able to do anything that the delegator could have done with regard to their notifications.

Periodically, NP checks the delegations present in the system and removes those with and end of validity date that has elapsed.