# 4️⃣ Static code list mode

If the operator decided to join the Program via its own website and/or e-commerce site and using the _Code list model_, they must communicate the list (bucket) of the static codes when defining the single opportunity, uploading a ".csv” file to the Portal that contains a minimum of 10,000 (ten thousand) codes. 

An example of correct formatting is shown below: 

{% file src="../../.gitbook/assets/test-codes.csv" %}   Template for uploading the static code list to the Portal {% endfile %}

{% hint style="info" %} The codes that make up the list:

* Are **alphanumeric** (they must contain **at least one letter** and **at least one number**);
* Can contain the character "-";
* May not exceed **20 characters**. {% endhint %}

Once the list containing the code list has been uploaded, it is necessary to wait the time required to permit the import and writing of the codes themselves in the CGN systems. During this procedure, a _progress bar_ is shown in an information module on the screen with details about the opportunity. The opportunities can be published only after the procedure has been completed.

{% hint style="warning" %} Different opportunities must be associated with different static code lists for greater security. The static codes must be accepted by the operator on its systems until they are used for the entire duration of the opportunity offered to the beneficiaries. {% endhint %}

The experience for the beneficiaries in the IO app is identical to that with the static code, but for this mode there is a system that monitors the use of the discount codes from the list, allowing the operator to upload additional codes to be made available to the beneficiaries of the opportunities.

In particular, when reaching the thresholds of 50%, 25%, 10% of residual codes, the operator will receive a communication requesting them to upload a new code list to permit use of the connected opportunities by the beneficiaries.

{% hint style="info" %} The "new" code list will be displayed only after all the previously uploaded codes have been used. {% endhint %}

***

### What happens if the codes run out?  

If **all the codes run out** related to a certain opportunity, the operator will receive an automatic e-mail generated by the portal, which communicates that the codes have run out and requests the operator to upload a new code list. At the same time, the opportunity switches to the **“Suspended”** status on the portal and is no longer displayed on the IO app.

***

The beneficiary is identified by the operator as follows: 

* The beneficiary accesses their CGN on the IO app and selects the operator of interest in the displayed list of operators; 
* The beneficiary selects the opportunity of interest and, pressing “Activate the discount code”, views one of the static codes that will be selected from the code list uploaded by the operator regarding that opportunity, with the possibility to copy it directly from the app and paste it in the operator's systems; 
* When completing the purchase on the operator's portal, the beneficiary pastes the code in the respective field and, if there were no errors when entering the code and it is still valid, the opportunity will be applied to the cart.

The user experience is identical to the one generated by the “Static discount code” model.

If the operator implements a process that invalidates the codes that were used in its systems, we recommend maximum attention when uploading the codes: the list may not contain duplicate codes or codes already included on the previous lists as they could be invalidated and no longer permit access to the opportunity, creating a problem for the beneficiaries.

{% hint style="warning" %} When the discount code is displayed in the IO app, it is considered used regardless if it is actually entered or used on the operator's e-commerce website, therefore it will no longer be displayed to beneficiaries (including the same beneficiary if they view the code for that opportunity at a later moment). {% endhint %}